---
title: "My Ode to Thinkpads (and Linux)"
date: "2020-05-28T14:00:00.000Z"
description: "My reminiscence how I got into Thinkpads and why I still think my Thinkpads are among the best purchases I ever made."
---

The King is Dead, Long Live the King! --- Good gear has always fascinated me and
was something I was lusting after when seeing something new advertised in
magazines (yes, you know these colorful paper thingies people used to read).

My first own PC was a IBM AT 286 running MS-DOS. Good old times with spending
hours tweaking `config.sys` and `autoexec.bat` just to make a new game work.
After that, glorious Windows 3.1, Windows 95, working professionally with
Windows NT/Windows Server.

In 2008 I had some software fatigue on Windows, I just wanted a computer that
works, has all the software I need and is a good piece of hardware. The new
aluminum unibody Macbook was delivering all of that for me and it stood its
ground until 2017.

After almost 10 years and the ridiculous pricing politics by Apple--a new
charger cost me once more than 100 US dollars in Korea--and their trend to make
their hardware less and less expandable and fixable, I decided to look for
alternatives.

I already installed Linux for robotics-related development with
[ROS](https://www.ros.org/). Step-by-step, I started my way out of the Apple
ecosystem. Later in that year, half of the display backlight on my Macbook went
out of order, so it was time to find a new laptop.

I researched on the Internet and found out that Lenovo Thinkpads, even or in
particular, older models were a great match to use with Linux. Living in Seoul,
South Korea, I headed to the Yongsan Electronics Market and in one of its
bellies, at a second-hand laptop shop, I found a Thinkpad T420 in mint condition
for an affordable 220 US dollars. For an extra 120 dollars I bought a 256GB
mSATA disk for the system install.

The performance improvement over the old Macbook was incredible and I was
hooked.
